---
layout: post
title: UI Design IRL
extended: === extra ===
categories:
  - ui
  - design
  - rant
  - personal
---

Not quite so recently now I discovered how much I enjoy a well designed (superficially at least) product when I took the plunge and bought my first macbook. After a little bit of time spent in OSX I came to the realisation that I am a complete whore for nice looking things. Take my choice of operating system: I am a massive Linux nut and would never dream of running anything on a server other than Linux, but when it comes to the Desktop it looks terrible and it just takes a lot of effort to setup (especially if you've come from a windows background). However, my newly realised discovery has spoilt me. I look for good design in everything now, be it the self service tills in Tescos (which I think are terrible by the way) or the chip and pin reader at the customer service desk.

And this is where I get onto the real topic of my rant. I recently bought some stamps from my local Tescos' customer service desk and happened to notice a sign on their chip and pin reader telling the customer 'Press the buttons hard!'. Now, having used one of these particular type of card reader in various shops (Tescos' choice in card reader is not really what I'm getting at here as it's a commonly used one in a lot of shops) I know that the buttons can be a pain if you don't press them quite hard enough.

=== extra ===

What I cannot get my head around is how the designer of this product could not have tested how the product would perform over time, because that is when the buttons seem to become unresponsive. Surely, when designing a product that will have daily usage of easily 10s of people you test that your button interface will not begin to fail in anything less than a few years?! But, apparently, this was not the case here.

And it is not only chip and pin readers that suffer this kind of design short sightedness, I see this kind of thing everywhere I look. From bulky british plugs to difficult to navigate websites, especially if you're a bank - I'm looking at you HSBC, to self service tills.

Yet we obviously have some talented designers out there [link to british plug guy] so why don't companies make an effort make their products smoother to use or just nicer looking (being a total fanboy, I'd probably put up with the Macbook Scroll)? It seems that companies see the general public's lack of caring and assume that putting time into designing a smoother UI would hurt their bottom line. I for one totally disagree with this, when I can look at Apple who have created multiple brands that are generally more expensive than competition yet consistently outsell them purely because their products are have been designed to be visually desirable. 